---
layout: post
title:  "GSoC 2025 - Week 16 Status Update"
date:   2025-09-21 23:00:00 +0300
categories: GSoC TLF AGL 
---

## Week 16 progress

Over the past three weeks, I focused on finalizing and merging the CI job for the [inference model][1] 
environment setup. In parallel, I retrained the traffic signs model using augmented traffic signs images
with artificial backgrounds. Eventually, I fixed the CMakeLists file issues to improve the building scenario of the 
`cam_infer_models` setup.

### CI Job workflow

I removed Ubuntu 20 from the OS matrix since Github Actions rarely provides a worker for it, however, I prioritized 
the Ubuntu 22 as being more relevant for our application. I also added the PipeWire setup to workflow as the final 
component of the [cam_infer model][1] environment setup. After these modifications, the job was executed successfully
and the `ae/ci` branch was merged. 

### Model retraining

I attempted to improve the traffic signs detector by retraining it with augmented images that included artificially
generated backgrounds, however, this approach did not yield any improvement in detection performance.

### CMakeLists improvements

Following my GSoC mentor's recommendations, I updated the CMakeLists configuration of the [cam_infer model][1] to:
- Switch the C++ standard to C++17
- Avoid dynamically fetching the gRPC repo
- Add the gRPC as a submodule (`third_party` directory)

As gRPC is now pinned to v1.71.0 to align with the Yocto master branch, I modified the proto file generation scripts of
the [camera_idl][2] to ensure compatibility with this setup and use the corresponding version of the protoc generator.

## Next steps

1. Improve the Flutter App lifecycle and inference model switching mechanism 
2. Enhance the current inference models and automate dataset generation.

[1]: https://github.com/AElkenawy/cam_infer_models/
[2]: https://github.com/AElkenawy/camera_idl
