---
layout: post
title:  "GSoC 2025 Community Bonding Period"
date:   2025-05-30 11:59:00 +0300
categories: GSoC, AGL, TLF
---

## Project Background

This project is part of the [Google Summer of Code][1] (GSoC) 2025 program. The mentoring organization is 
[The Linux Foundation][2], through its [Automotive Grade Linux (AGL)][3] open source project. AGL is one of 
The Linux Foundation’s projects, aimed at accelerating the development of a fully open software stack for connected cars.

### Intelligent Camera Stream Integration and Warning System (ICSW)

The primary goal of this project is to develop a **camera-based application** tailored to automotive use cases. 
Cameras play a crucial role in the automotive perception stack, from classifying static and moving objects to 
recognizing traffic light status. This project ultimately aims to implement an **in-vehicle warning system** that issues 
alerts when objects enter the vehicle’s blind spot.

The planned subtasks for the GSoC 2025 contribution include:

1. Integrating inference models (e.g., object detection, depth estimation) as **PipeWire** nodes

2. Retrieving raw and processed camera streams as **Flutter overlays**

3. Enabling dynamic reconfiguration of the PipeWire graph at runtime

## Community Bonding Period (May 8 – June 1)

During the Community Bonding Period, I engaged with the AGL community primarily through the [AGL website][3] and the 
community Discord channel. The project proposal served as the foundation for initiating communication with my GSoC 
mentors — [Jan-Simon](mailto:jsmoeller@linuxfoundation.org), [Walt](mailto:wminer@linuxfoundation.org), 
[Joel](mailto:joel.winarske@toyotaconnected.com), [George](mailto:george.kiagiadakis@collabora.com), and other AGL members.

Throughout the application period, my mentors provided a clear vision, which helped me to consolidate and refine my ideas 
in the proposal. I used the bonding period to become more familiar with the AGL ecosystem. As I:

1. Participated in the AGL Weekly Developer Call
2. Set up my host development environment
3. Built the AGL master branch and ran a demo image on QEMU

I also began exploring PipeWire to list the available camera devices on my host machine along with their supported 
formats:

{% highlight bash %}
$ wpctl status
Video
├─ Devices:
│      34. Integrated_Webcam_HD                [v4l2]
│      35. Integrated_Webcam_HD                [v4l2]
├─ Sinks:
├─ Sources:
│      36. Integrated_Webcam_HD               
├─ Filters:
└─ Streams:

$ pw-dump 36
{
"mediaType": "video",
"mediaSubtype": "raw",
"format": "YUY2",
"size": { "width": 160, "height": 120 },
"framerate": { "num": 30, "denom": 1 }
}
{% endhighlight %}

## Next steps
To tweak the video-play.c script of the PipeWire API `src/examples/video-play.c` to retrieve the camera stream from 
my host machine


[1]: https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/
[2]: https://www.linuxfoundation.org/projects
[3]: https://www.automotivelinux.org/
